5 years ago I stood on this very Street
and I told you guys how much I loved
amd's roadmap if it hadn't been such an
ethical issue I would have bought their
stock obviously that wasn't Financial
advice and it still isn't but man did I
ever nail it because the hits keep
coming and it's all at Intel's expense
there are a lot of reasons to be excited
about the new CPUs that AMD just
announced but I'm not here to just talk
about that because there are also
reasons to we only cautiously
enthusiastic so let's talk about that
but first this enthusiastic segue to our
sponsor pulseway Monitor and take
control of your systems while you're on
the move and respond to it alerts right
from your phone with pulseway you can
try it for free today and secure 40% off
any plan including their month-to-month
options who wants 16% more performance
for reportedly the same price yeah me
too and that's what AMD is claiming to
deliver with the ryzen 9 950x
considering that there's no bumping
boost clocks or cash and their base
clocks are actually a little bit lower
that is a very respectable result and
enough to absolutely blow the doors off
of Intel's consumer Flagship The Core i
94900 k now these are amd's Z numbers
and you should take them with a sodium
tablet until we get a chance to run them
through the lab but the performance
leader is rarely the one that's going to
be caught stretching the truth and there
is no doubt that the performance leader
right now is AMD unfortunately that's
all AMD gave us as far as performance
numbers go they are not sharing
benchmarks for the rest of the 9000
Series lineup though they did give us
specs for the ryzen 5 and the ryzen 7
that would indicate a similar
performance uplift over last gen with a
reduction in heat and power consumption
to go along with the performance D until
that's sicker burn than you'll get from
a core I9 it gets even better for the
gamers out there precedent suggests that
the five and the Seven class chips are
going to be single CCD SKS making them
the goto for minmaxer gamers that is at
least until we get an x3d variant which
AMD hasn't announced at this
time the most exciting part for me
though is what's not new while AMD has
been hard at work on a new motherboard
chipet to launch alongside these CPUs
it's going to be on the same am5 socket
that we've come to know and they've
recommitted to their long-term
relationship confirming support for am5
until at least
2027 this is such great news if you
already have a 600 series board you've
got to love just drop in performance
upgrades but with how strong some of
these new boards look I suspect some
people are going to be tempted to
upgrade anyway
for one thing USB 4.0 is now standard on
all x870 and x870 or extreme
motherboards which means Thunderbolt 3
capability which is an optional part of
USB 4 may become more common on AMD and
the same goes for PCI Express Gen 5
which is now on all x800 series chipsets
for both the GPU and for nvme storage
though how many ports are required to be
Gen 5 remains to be seen pcie Gen 5 has
double the bandwidth of Gen 4 which
while we aren't likely to actually use
it to its full potential today means
that devices can use fewer lanes for the
same performance level that's going to
pair nicely with the higher speed Expo
certified memory kits that AMD is
promising for this generation but wait
there's even more am4 users are getting
new Chips that's right the ryzen 9 5900
XT and ryzen 7 5800 XT are coming to
give you a nice little performance boost
for your older system this puts am4
users on par with the 13700 K and the
13600 K respectively all of which is
pretty great but is anyone else feeling
like something's missing like look over
the spec tables again it's going to be
kind of familiar maximum of 16 cores
same boost clock same cash mostly the
same TDP yeah IPC is up or instructions
per clock so we're going to get more
performance but does this feel a little
bit like the Habit that Intel got stuck
in during the years between the 2000
series and 7,000 Series where each
generation gave us modest speed
increases or IPC increases and not much
else I mean to be clear up to 16 cores
is great compared to where Intel left us
with four but there's something much
more important missing here ryzen 3 I
mean AMD strategy of selling their last
gen product for a discount is an okay
option for gamers and enthus and
certainly amd's pocketbook I mean you
can't blame them for wanting to get the
most possible back on their R&D
investment but it just stings a little
knowing that unless you're one of their
most affluent customers you're not going
to be able to take advantage of the IPC
and the power efficiency gains on this
generation at least not if things keep
going the way they are so I guess I've
got a bit of a challenge for AMD guys
it's easy to be the hero for Budget
Gamers when your products aren't good
enough for you to charge more but can
you be better than Intel now that you're
the ones on top cuz it really doesn't
seem like it at the moment case in point
the top end first gen thread Ripper
launched at
$999 now even the cheapest one costs
more than
1,400 that is where performance
leadership has gotten AMD and it smells
like complacency I hope it's not the
case but I'm starting to feel like we
need intel to step up their game to keep
AMD motivated to deliver better products
for gamers rather than the other way
around changing gear somewhat abruptly
AMD also announced their ryzen AI 300
series so Windows 11 recall is coming to
x86 so
woo sorry that was about as enthusiastic
as I could pretend to be about that with
50 tops of neural processing compute
these new chips are capable of the
newest AI features and they were very
clear about this they are doing it
without emulation a roundabout
acknowledgement that arm might be more
competitive on Windows than they might
have hoped they also made bold
performance claims about General non AI
Computing performance saying that they
could beat Apple silicon M3 in many
workloads though it's tough to make an
Apples to Apples comparison there and
then against
Intel I'm not even sure they see core
Ultra as a competitor especially against
anything that utilizes amd's Radeon 800
series integrated gpus AI or not AMD
looks like they may be the better option
for performance battery life and
thermals as long as you don't mind
paying the AMD tax through the grape
vine I've heard that pricing for these
upcoming stricks mobile chips is going
to be pretty friendly that is to amd's
shareholders in other good news for
those folks AMD unveiled their epic
Turin lineup which seems destined to
capture even more market share from
Intel's Bel leaguered data center
division just like its predecessors did
it boasts up to a truly daggering 192
cores and 384 threads on a single CPU
and while they didn't show any specific
performance numbers for that particular
CPU in the teaser AMD is claiming a 2
and2 to 5.4 times performance lead over
Intel's Emerald rapid xeons depending on
the workload I mean it's kind of a
foregone conclusion that you're going to
win when you have twice as many corses
the competition but still impressive
nonetheless seems like Intel's main
selling point for the data center
product seems to come down to
manufacturing capacity at this point
unless they've got an ace up their
sleeves that uh I don't know about all
of these new products are going to be
hitting shelves starting in July which
is very exciting news for amd's
customers but in spite of that I'm not
going to be making the same bold
statement predicting that their stock
with Skyrocket that I did 5 years ago
while they have somewhat ridden the wave
of AI excitement and may continue to do
so I mean they did announce new GPU
products as well as a one-year Cadence
for AI processor refreshes I just don't
know if I believe that they can close
the gap against Nvidia though I do hope
I hope for a message from our sponsor
pulseway what would you do if you were
out of the office and a critical service
on one of your systems crashed I mean
you could drive in and try and sort
things out that way but with pulse way
it could be so much simpler you'll get a
notification on your phone letting you
know something went wrong and you can
fix it right there and that even assumes
that you have't already set up pulseway
automations which can just sort it out
for you in the background also if you
want more control over system patches
you can tell pulseway what where and
when you want them to go through
pulseway does it all and on flexible
terms including a commitment free pay as
you go option and exclusively for our
viewers they're offering 40% off of all
of their plans so start your free twoe
trial using the link in the video
description if you guys enjoyed this
video maybe go check out the one from 5
years ago let me know how close do you
think I got it